<a href="/JS/DOM/Forms.md">&lt; Previous</a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<a href="/JS/DOM/Animations.md">Next &gt;</a>
<hr>
The HTML DOM allows JavaScript to change the style of HTML elements.
<h1>Changing Style</h1>
To change the style of an HTML element, use this syntax:
<pre>document.getElementById(<i>id</i>).style.property = <i>new style</i></pre>
The following example changes the style of a <b>&lt;p&gt;</b> element:
<pre>
&lt;p id="p2"&gt;Hello World!&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;script&gt;document.getElementById("p2").style.color = "blue";&lt;/script&gt;
</pre>
<h1>Using Events</h1>
The HTML DOM allows you to execute code when an event occurs.
<br>
Events are generated by the browser when "things happen" to HTML elements:
<ul>
  <li>An element is clicked on</li>
  <li>The page has loaded</li>
  <li>Input fields are changed</li>
</ul>
You will learn more about events in the next chapter of this tutorial.
<br>
This example changes the style of the HTML element with <code>id="id1"</code>, when the user clicks a button:
<pre>
&lt;h1 id="id1"&gt;My Heading 1&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;button type="button" onclick="document.getElementById('id1').style.color='red'"&gt;Click Me!&lt;/button&gt;
</pre>
<h1>More Examples</h1>
<b>Visibility:</b> How to make an element invisible. Do you want to show the element or not?
<pre>
&lt;p id="p1"&gt;
This is a text.
This is a text.
This is a text.
This is a text.
&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;input type="button" value="Hide text" onclick="document.getElementById('p1').style.visibility='hidden'"&gt;
&lt;input type="button" value="Show text" onclick="document.getElementById('p1').style.visibility='visible'"&gt;
</pre>
